# G-EO-S_Legacy
This is a legacy version of the GEOS code. 
This version was released in released in 2014 under a BSD license. 
We continued to develop GEOS as our main workhorse subsurface modeling code to this date but the new versions have not been released for a number of reasons.
Numerous new modules are available in the new version but this legacy version can provide sneak-peek view the high performance computing plumbing of the code that remained relatively stable. 

Below is a list of selected publications that either described the capabilities of GEOS or used GEOS as the main computational tool.

Wu, H., *Fu, P., Hawkins, A., Tang, H., and Morris, J.P. (2021). “Predicting thermal performance of enhanced geothermal systems from tracer tests in a data assimilation framework”. Water Resources Research, 57 (12): e2021WR030987. DOI: 10.1029/2021WR030987.
Wu, H., Fu, P., Frone, Z., White M.D., Ajo-Franklin, J.B., Morris, J.P., et al., (2021). “Modeling heat transport processes in enhanced geothermal systems: Validation at EGS Collab Experiment 1”. Geothermics, 97: 102254. DOI: 10.1016/j.geothermics.2021.102254.
Fu, W., Morris, J.P., Sherman, C.S., and Fu, P. (2021) “Controlling Hydraulic Fracture Growth through Precise Vertical Placement of Lateral Wells: Insights from Observations at the HFTS Experiment and Numerical Validation” Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering, submitted.
Wu, H., Settgast, R.R., Fu, P., and Morris, J.P. (2021). “An Enhanced Virtual Crack Closure Technique for Stress Intensity Factor Calculation along Arbitrary Crack Fronts and the Application in Hydraulic Fracturing Simulation.” Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering, (2021) 48, 
DOI: 10.1007/s00603-021-02428-9
Frash, L.P., Fu, P., Morris, J.P., Gutierrez, M., Neupane, G., Hampton, J., Welch, N.J., Carey, J.W., and Kneafsey, T. (2021). “Fracture caging for fluid containment and limiting induced seismicity.” Geophysical Research Letters, 48, e2020GL090648. https://doi.org/10.1029/2020GL090648.
Ju, X., *Fu, P., Settgast, R.R. and Morris, J.P. (2021) “A method to simulate thermo-hydro- mechanical processes in leakoff-dominated hydraulic fracturing and the application in geological carbon storage”. International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control, 109: 103379. DOI: 10.1016/j.ijggc.2021.103379.
*Fu, P., Ju, X, Huang, J., Settgast, R.R., and Morris, J.P. (2021) “Thermo-poroelastic responses of a pressure-driven fracture in carbon storage reservoir and the implications for injectivity and caprock integrity.” International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics, 45(6): 719-737, https://doi.org/10.1002/nag.3165.
Fu, W., Morris, J.P., Fu, P., Huang, J., Sherman, C.S., Settgast, R.R., and Ryerson, F.J. (2020) “Developing Upscaling Approach for Swarming Hydraulic Fractures Observed at Hydraulic Fracturing Test Site through Multiscale Simulations.” The SPE Journal, SPE-199689-PA.
Wu, H., *Fu, P., Morris, J.P., Mattson, E.D., Neupane, G., Hawkins, A., Zhang, Y. Kneafsey, T. (2021) “Characterization of flow and transport in a fracture network at the EGS Collab field experiment through stochastic modeling of tracer recovery.” Journal of Hydrology, 593: 125888.
Wang, R.-X., Wang R., Fu, P., and Zhang, J.-M. (2020) “Portable interactive visualization of large-scale simulations in geotechnical engineering using Unity3D.” Advances in Engineering Software, 148: 102838. DOI: 10.1016/j.advengsoft.2020.102838..
Ju, X, Liu, F., Fu, P., White, M.D., Settgast, R.R., Morris, J.P. (2020). “Gas production from hot water circulation through hydraulic fractures in methane hydrate-bearing sediments: THC-coupled simulation of production mechanisms”. Energy and Fuels, 34 (4), 4448-4465, DOI: 10.1021/acs.energyfuels.0c00241.
*Fu, P., Huang, J., Settgast, R.R., Morris, J.P., and Ryerson, F.J. (2019) "Apparent toughness anisotropy induced by roughness of in situ stress: a mechanism that hinders vertical growth of hydraulic fractures and its simplified modeling." The SPE Journal, DOI: 10.2118/194359-PA.
Wu, H., *Fu, P., Morris, J.P., Settgast, R.R., and Ryerson, F.J. (2019) “ICAT: A numerical scheme to minimize numerical diffusion in advection-diffusion modeling and its application in identifying flow channeling.” Advances in Water Resources, 134: 103434. DOI: 10.1016/j.advwatres.2019.103434.
Wu, H., *Fu, P., Yang, X., Morris, J.P., Johnson, T.C., Settgast, R.R., and Ryerson, F.J. (2019) “Accurate imaging of hydraulic fractures using templated electrical resistivity tomography.” Geothermics, 81: 74087, DOI: 10.1016/j.geothermics.2019.04.004.
Sherman, C.S., Morris, J.P., Fu, P., and Settgast, R.R. (2019) “Recovering the Microseismic Response from a Geomechanical Simulation.” Geophysics, 84(4): 1JA-Z21. DOI: 10.1190/geo2018-0184.1.
Liu, F., *Fu, P., Mellor, R.J., Plummber, M., Ali, T., Reinisch, E.C., Liu, Q., and Feigl, K.L. (2018) “Inferring geothermal reservoir processes at the Raft River Geothermal Field, Idaho, USA through modeling InSAR-measured surface deformation.” Journal of Geophysical Research-Solid Earth, 123: 3645-3666. DOI: 10.1029/2017JB015223. 
Huang, J., Morris, J.P., *Fu, P., Settgast, R.R., Sherman, C.S, and Ryerson, F.J. (2018) “Hydraulic Fracture Height Growth Under the Combined Influence of Stress Barriers and Natural Fractures.” The SPE Journal, DOI: 10.2118/189861-PA.
Huang, J., *Fu, P., Settgast, R.R., Morris, J.P., and Ryerson, F.J. (2018) “Evaluating a Simple Fracturing Criterion for a Hydraulic Fracture Crossing Stress and Stiffness Contrasts.” Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering, DOI: 10.1007/s00603-018-1679-7.
*Fu, P., Settgast, R.R., Hao, Y., Morris, J.P., and Ryerson, F.J. (2017). “The influence of hydraulic fracturing on carbon storage performance”. Journal of Geophysical Research-Solid Earth, 122: 9931–9949, DOI: 10.1002/2017JB014942.
White, M., Fu, P., McClure, M. Danko, G., Elsworth, D., Sonnelthal, E., Kelkar, S., and Podgorney, R. (2017) “A suite of benchmark and challenge problems for enhanced geothermal systems." Geomechanics and Geophysics for Geo-Energy and Geo-Resources, 4 (1): 79-117. DOI: 10.1007/s40948-017-0076-0.
Settgast, R.R, Fu, P., Walsh, S.D.C, White, J.A., Annavarapu, C., and Ryerson, F.J. (2017). “A Fully Coupled Method for Massively Parallel Simulation of Hydraulically Driven Fractures in 3-Dimensions”. International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics, 41(5): 627-653), DOI: 10.1002/nag.2557.
Guo, B., *Fu, P., Hao, Y., and Carrigan, C.R. (2016). “Thermal drawdown-induced flow channeling in a single fracture in EGS”. Geothermics, 61:46-62, DOI: 10.1016/j.geotherrmics.2016.01.004.
*Fu, P., Hao, Y., Walsh, S.D.C., and Carrigan, C.R. (2016). “Thermal drawdown-induced flow channeling in fractured geothermal reservoirs”. Rock Mechanics and Rock Engineering, 49(3): 1001-1024, DOI: 10.1007/s00603-015-0776-0.
Annavarapu, C., Settgast, R.R., Johnson, S.M., Fu, P., and Herbold, E.B. (2015). “A weighted Nitsche stabilized method for small-sliding contact on frictional surfaces”. Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering, 283(1): 763-781, DOI: 10.1016/j.cma.2014.09.030.
Chen, M., Sun, Y., Fu, P., Carrigan, C.R., Lu, Z., Tong, C.H., and Buscheck, T.A. (2013). “Surrogate-based optimization of hydraulic fracturing in pre-existing fracture networks”. Computers and Geosciences, 58: 69-79, DOI: 10.1016/j.cageo.2013.05.006.
*Fu, P., Johnson, S.M., and Carrigan, C.R. (2013). “An explicitly coupled hydro-geomechanical model for simulating hydraulic fracturing in complex discrete fracture networks.” International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics, 34(14): 2278-2300, DOI: 10.1002/nag.2135. 
*Fu, P., Johnson, S.M., Settgast, R.R., and Carrigan, C.R. (2012). “Generalized displacement correlation method for estimating stress intensity factors.” Engineering Fracture Mechanics, 88: 90-107, DOI: 10.1016/j.engfracmech.2012.04.010. 

